README.md, before:

# Express API for Strongman Tracker

API uses Express, Typescript, Knex

***The following steps assume the dev machine is an Apple Silicon Mac***

If that is *not* the case, qemu can be used to emulate ARM64, and minikube can be used in place of Docker Desktop.

## Running Locally

### TS Node

1. `npm install` to install dependencies
2. `npm run dev` to run on `localhost:8080`

### Docker Desktop K8s

#### Starting Up
1. Make sure Docker Desktop is running, including K8s
2. `npm run kubelocal:start` does everything necessary to deploy the app in docker-desktop-k8s
    1. Builds placing output in `./out`
    2. Builds the docker image
    3. Creates the deployment
    4. Opens the running service at `localhost:32324`

#### Shutting Down
1. `npm run kubelocal:stop` deletes the deployment

## Releasing/Deploying

1. Commit the ready-to-be-released code to `develop`
2. Run `npm version` to:
    1. Update `version` in package.json
    2. Push to `develop` with git tag
    3. Build, tag and push the docker image to Docker Hub
    4. Rollout deployment on cluster

Commit message:

Use Docker Compose to start Keycloak
API can (and should) use the DB and Keycloak from docker-compose when running locally as well. Just requires stopping the `latest-api` container.

Default local port changed from 8080 to 8082 to make running keycloak easier.

Added init.sql to create the keycloak db automagically. Should probably use the concept in prod as well.

README.md, after:

# Express API for Strongman Tracker

API uses Express, Typescript, Knex

***The following steps assume the dev machine is an Apple Silicon Mac***

If that is *not* the case, qemu can be used to emulate ARM64, and minikube can be used in place of Docker Desktop.

## Running Locally

### TS Node

1. Stop `latest-api` docker container, if it's running.
2. `npm install` to install dependencies
3. `npm run dev` to run on `localhost:8082`

### Docker Compose

1. Prerequisite: `/etc/hosts` needs the line `127.0.0.1 keycloak` to allow keycloak to work from apps both inside and outside docker-compose.
2. `docker-compose up -d` to spin up PostgreSQL, Keycloak, and Latest API

### Docker Desktop K8s

#### Starting Up
1. Make sure Docker Desktop is running, including K8s
2. `npm run kubelocal:start` does everything necessary to deploy the app in docker-desktop-k8s
    1. Builds placing output in `./out`
    2. Builds the docker image
    3. Creates the deployment
    4. Opens the running service at `localhost:32324`

#### Shutting Down
1. `npm run kubelocal:stop` deletes the deployment

## Releasing/Deploying

1. Commit the ready-to-be-released code to `develop`
2. Run `npm version` to:
    1. Update `version` in package.json
    2. Push to `develop` with git tag
    3. Build, tag and push the docker image to Docker Hub
    4. Rollout deployment on cluster
